CHAPTER XI OF THE GOSPEL OF MARK
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.
CHAPTER XI OF THE GOSPEL OF MARK
And when they came nigh to Jerusalem unto Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives,
he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and sayeth unto them, Go your way into the village over
against you, and as soon as ye be entered into it ye shall find a colt tied whereon never man set.
Loose him and bring him, and if any man say unto you, Why do ye this?
Say ye that the Lord hath need of him, and straightway he will send him hither.
They went their way and found the colt by the door without a place where two ways met,
and they loosed him. And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye loosing
the colt? And they said unto them, Even as Jesus had commanded, and they let them go.
And they brought the colt to Jesus and cast their garments on him, and he set upon him.
And many spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches off the trees
and strawed them in the way. And they that went before and they that followed cried, saying,
Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Blessed be the kingdom of our father
David that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus entered into Jerusalem
and into the temple, and when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the even
tide was come, he went out on to Bethany with the twelve. And on the morrow, when they were come
from Bethany, he was hungry, and seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came. If happily he
might find anything thereon. And when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for the time of
figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter forever.
And his disciples heard it, and they come to Jerusalem. And Jesus went into the temple and
began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money
changers and the seats of them that sold doves, and would not suffer that any man should carry
any vessel through the temple. And he taught, saying unto them, Is it not written, My house shall
be called of all nations the house of prayer? But ye have made it a den of thieves. And the scribes
and chief priests heard it, and saw how they might destroy him, for they feared him, because all the
people was astonished at his doctrine. And when even was come, he went out of the city, and in the
morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots. And Peter, calling to
remembrance, saith unto him, Master, behold the fig tree, which thou cursed, is withered away.
And Jesus answering, saith unto him, Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you,
that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea,
and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall
come to pass, he shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore I say unto you, what things so ever ye
desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. And when ye stand
praying, forgive if ye have ought against any, that your father also which is in heaven may forgive
you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your father which is in heaven
forgive your trespasses. And they came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple,
there come to him the chief priests, and scribes, and the elders, and say unto him, By what authority
doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority to do these things? And Jesus answered
and said unto them, I will also ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by
what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? Answer me.
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, Why then
did ye not believe him? But if we shall say of men, they feared the people, for all men counted John
that he was a prophet indeed. And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesus
answering sayeth unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Chapter 12. And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain man planted a vineyard,
and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for the wine vat, and built a tower, and let it out
to husband men, and went into a far country. And at the season he sent to the husband men,
a servant that he might receive from the husband men of the fruit of the vineyard.
And they caught him and beat him, and sent him away empty. And again he sent unto them
another servant, and at him they cast stones and wounded him in the head, and sent him away
shamefully handled. And again he sent another, and him they killed, and many others beating some
and killing some. Having yet therefore one son, his well-beloved, he sent him also last unto them,
saying, They will reverence my son. But those husband men said among themselves, This is the
come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be ours. And they took him and killed him, and cast
him out of the vineyard. What shall therefore the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy
the husband men, and will give the vineyard unto others. And have ye not read this scripture,
The stone which the builders rejected is become the head of the corner.
This was the lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And they sought to lay hold on him,
but feared the people, for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them. And they left him,
and went their way. And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees, and of the Herodians,
to catch him in his words. And when they will come, they say unto him, Master, we know that
thou art true, and carest for no man, for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest
the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? Shall we give,
or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me?
Bring me a penny, that I may see it. And they brought it. And he sayeth unto them, Whose is
this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus answering said unto them,
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they
marveled at him. Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no resurrection.
And they asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his
wife behind, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed
unto his brother. Now there were seven brethren, and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
And the second took her and died, neither left he any seed. And the third likewise, and the seven
had her, and left no seed. Last of all the woman died also. In the resurrection therefore, when
they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them? For the seven had her two wife. And Jesus answering
said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of
God? For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage,
but are as the angels which are in heaven. And as touching the dead that they rise,
have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying,
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead,
but the God of the living. Ye therefore do greatly err. And one of the scribes came, and having heard
them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the
first commandment of all? And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Here, O Israel,
the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all
thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the
second is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment
greater than these. And the scribe said unto him, Well, master, thou hast said the truth,
for there is one God, and there is none other but he, and to love him with all the heart,
and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love
his neighbor as himself is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus
saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God,
and no man after that darest ask him any question. And Jesus answered and said, While he taught in
the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David? For David himself said by the Holy
Ghost, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
David therefore himself calleth him Lord, and whence is he then his son? And the common people heard
him gladly, and he said unto them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes which love to go in long
clothing, and love salutations in the market places, and the chief seats in the synagogues,
and the uppermost rooms at feast. Which devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long
prayers, these shall receive greater damnation. And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld
how the people cast money into the treasury, and many that were rich cast in much. And there came
a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing. And he called unto him his
disciples, and sayeth unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow has cast more in than
all they which have cast into the treasury. For all they did cast in of their abundance,
but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living.
End of chapters 11 and 12 of the Gospel of Mark. Recording by Simon Wainwright.